docs/gaming_notes/wow_retail/01-index.md, before:

---
title: World Of Warcraft Retail (WoW Retail)
permalink: /docs/gaming_notes/wow_retail/
sidebar:
    nav: "gaming_notes-wow_retail"
---

![World of Warcraft Logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/fr/thumb/e/e3/World_of_Warcraft_Logo.png/1024px-World_of_Warcraft_Logo.png){: .align-center}

[World of Warcraft](https://worldofwarcraft.blizzard.com/en-us/start) (also known as WoW) is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) that was first launched in 2004. Nowadays, the game has changed significantly in terms of its structure and lore. I personally consider the social aspect an important factor in MMORPGs to be almost dead. This is largely because the developers have tried to adapt the game to different types of players: consistent players, try-hards, casuals, Game esports enthusiasts, and others.

Currently, there are different versions of the game available. One is the **Retail version**, the current version of WoW, which caters more to casual players (try to have events, activities that does not an issue if you spend few time) and also supports esports competitions. Every minor update introduces a new season, during which events like the Mythic Dungeon International (MDI) take place.

Another version is WoW Classic, which preserves the original structure of the game. It's designed for players who enjoy playing daily and spending more time in-game (usually this version requires more grinding than retail) typically the more dedicated crowd.

On this page, I will focus specifically on the **Retail version**, as I will focus the information for new and casual players. In the navigation bar, you can find different topics I've written about feel free to take a look!

Commit message:

doc: update focus, party, pet, raid frames, add glosary at wow retial index

docs/gaming_notes/wow_retail/01-index.md, after:

---
title: World Of Warcraft Retail (WoW Retail)
permalink: /docs/gaming_notes/wow_retail/
sidebar:
    nav: "gaming_notes-wow_retail"
---

![World of Warcraft Logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/fr/thumb/e/e3/World_of_Warcraft_Logo.png/1024px-World_of_Warcraft_Logo.png){: .align-center}

[World of Warcraft](https://worldofwarcraft.blizzard.com/en-us/start) (also known as WoW) is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) that was first launched in 2004. Nowadays, the game has changed significantly in terms of its structure and lore. I personally consider the social aspect an important factor in MMORPGs to be almost dead. This is largely because the developers have tried to adapt the game to different types of players: consistent players, try-hards, casuals, Game esports enthusiasts, and others.

Currently, there are different versions of the game available. One is the **Retail version**, the current version of WoW, which caters more to casual players (try to have events, activities that does not an issue if you spend few time) and also supports esports competitions. Every minor update introduces a new season, during which events like the Mythic Dungeon International (MDI) take place.

Another version is WoW Classic, which preserves the original structure of the game. It's designed for players who enjoy playing daily and spending more time in-game (usually this version requires more grinding than retail) typically the more dedicated crowd.

On this page, I will focus specifically on the **Retail version**, as I will focus the information for new and casual players. In the navigation bar, you can find different topics I've written about feel free to take a look! below will have glossary with some terms that could helpfully even for experimented players.

# Glossary
Here some terms used in world of warcraft some of these are also common used in other video games, usually the short terms is for quick typing
* **BR**: Battle Res, refers to any spell that can resurrect another player in combat
* **BL**: Bloodlust (in alliance old times was know in short term also known how Hero), refers to any spell that increase haste 30% all party/raid members for 40 seconds like [Bloodlust](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=282), [Heroism](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=32182), [Fury of the Aspects](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=390386), [Time Warp](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=80353) [Harrier's Cry](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=466904)
