about/exp/05-2018_software_tester.md, before:

---
title: Exp Software Tester UTP (2018)
permalink: /about/exp/2018_software_tester/
toc: true
sidebar:
    nav: "about-work"

previous:
    title: Exp 8Puzzle A* Academic IA Project (2016)
    url: "/about/exp/2016_academic_proj_8puzzle/"
    
# next:
#     title: ""
#     url: ""
---

![Mobile tester representation](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/mobile_tester.jpeg){: .align-center}
In 2018, at the university, I was a member of the research/investigation group GRANDE (GRupo de Avanzada eN Desarrollo de softwarE). At that time, the company INDESAP SAS approached the group leader to propose an agreement for participation in a project. This project involved the development process of a mobile app for Ukumari Zoo, focusing specifically on software testing, particularly performing manual tests. I was invited by the group to participate in this project.
{: .text-justify}

# Skills/Tools
* Bug Tracker
* User Flows
* Use Case

# How i get the work?
![Research group](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/Grande.jpeg){: .align-left}
While working as a Teaching Assistant, one of the teachers from the Compilers course, who is also a member of the Research Group GRANDE, provided feedback about me to the group leader. This group leader was also my teacher, and I often contacted him about the projects I wanted to work on within the group. One such project involved participating in testing for the development of an app for Ukumari Zoo by the INDESAP company. They informed me about this project, and I agreed to join because I saw it as a good opportunity to learn more about projects and to establish myself in the IT sector.
{: .text-justify}

![Research group](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/indesap-logo.png){: .align-right}
INDESAP is an IT company that offers IT consulting, software development, and Software QA services (more info [here](https://indesap.com/)). During the process with this company, we were introduced to the IT team and learned more about the project. Once responsibilities were clarified, our team sign a contract and began the process. At that time, INDESAP were already developing the app and were nearing the testing phase for the Alpha version.
{: .text-justify}

# Responsibilities
![Research group](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/bugtracker.jpeg){: .align-right}
The INDESAP company shared with the research group the use cases and UML diagrams, which explain the different expected app flows. Additionally, with every new version of the app, they send only the APK (Android app) and IPA (iOS app). Consequently, we must:
{: .text-justify}
* Define the test cases based on the UML and use cases.
* Use a bug tracker template to fill out reports that define the level of error in different categories such as security, usability, and the severity of bugs or current functionality.
* Execute user flows (Happy Path) on Android and iOS devices manually.
* If something is wrong, describe it in detail and provide proof, such as a short video or screenshots.
* If everything is okay, it should also be reported with respective recommendations.

All of our work was supervised by the leader of the research group.

# Ukumari App
The Ukumari App is an application that allows zoo customers to use it as a map of the zoo. This map works with localization and devices that detect if the user is near a zone of interest. For example, if they approach the Elephants, the app will alert them that they are near these animals and will play sounds related to them, among other related functionalities that help customers in the zoo. The app can be found at this [link](https://apkspc.com/App/com.indesap.ukumari/).
{: .text-justify}

Commit message:

exp: add working experience bout teacher iot at 2019, minimal change for title software tester at 2018

about/exp/05-2018_software_tester.md, after:

---
title: Exp Software Tester - UTP (2018)
permalink: /about/exp/2018_software_tester/
toc: true
sidebar:
    nav: "about-work"

previous:
    title: Exp 8Puzzle A* Academic IA Project (2016)
    url: "/about/exp/2016_academic_proj_8puzzle/"
    
next:
    title: Exp Teacher IoT - UTP (2018)
    url: "/about/exp/2019_teacher_iot-utp/"
---

![Mobile tester representation](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/mobile_tester.jpeg){: .align-center}
In 2018, at the university, I was a member of the research/investigation group GRANDE (Grupo de Avanzada en Desarrollo de software). At that time, the company INDESAP SAS approached the group leader to propose an agreement for participation in a project. This project involved the development process of a mobile app for Ukumari Zoo, focusing specifically on software testing, particularly performing manual tests. I was invited by the group to participate in this project.
{: .text-justify}

# Skills/Tools
* Bug Tracker
* User Flows
* Use Case

# How i get the work?
![Research group](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/Grande.jpeg){: .align-left}
While working as a Teaching Assistant, one of the teachers from the Compilers course, who is also a member of the Research Group GRANDE, provided feedback about me to the group leader. This group leader was also my teacher, and I often contacted him about the projects I wanted to work on within the group. One such project involved participating in testing for the development of an app for Ukumari Zoo by the INDESAP company. They informed me about this project, and I agreed to join because I saw it as a good opportunity to learn more about projects and to establish myself in the IT sector.
{: .text-justify}

![Research group](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/indesap-logo.png){: .align-right}
INDESAP is an IT company that offers IT consulting, software development, and Software QA services (more info [here](https://indesap.com/)). During the process with this company, we were introduced to the IT team and learned more about the project. Once responsibilities were clarified, our team sign a contract and began the process. At that time, INDESAP were already developing the app and were nearing the testing phase for the Alpha version.
{: .text-justify}

# Responsibilities
![Research group](/assets/img/work/software_tester-2018/bugtracker.jpeg){: .align-right}
The INDESAP company shared with the research group the use cases and UML diagrams, which explain the different expected app flows. Additionally, with every new version of the app, they send only the APK (Android app) and IPA (iOS app). Consequently, we must:
{: .text-justify}
* Define the test cases based on the UML and use cases.
* Use a bug tracker template to fill out reports that define the level of error in different categories such as security, usability, and the severity of bugs or current functionality.
* Execute user flows (Happy Path) on Android and iOS devices manually.
* If something is wrong, describe it in detail and provide proof, such as a short video or screenshots.
* If everything is okay, it should also be reported with respective recommendations.

All of our work was supervised by the leader of the research group.

# Ukumari App
The Ukumari App is an application that allows zoo customers to use it as a map of the zoo. This map works with localization and devices that detect if the user is near a zone of interest. For example, if they approach the Elephants, the app will alert them that they are near these animals and will play sounds related to them, among other related functionalities that help customers in the zoo. The app can be found at this [link](https://apkspc.com/App/com.indesap.ukumari/).
{: .text-justify}
